README.rst, before:

.. |gae| replace:: Google App Engine
.. _gae: https://developers.google.com/appengine/

.. |webapp2| replace:: Webapp2
.. _webapp2: http://webapp-improved.appspot.com/

.. |oauth2| replace:: OAuth 2.0
.. _oauth2: http://oauth.net/2/

.. |oauth1| replace:: OAuth 1.0a
.. _oauth1: http://oauth.net/core/1.0a/

.. |openid| replace:: OpenID
.. _openid: http://openid.net/

.. |pyopenid| replace:: python-openid
.. _pyopenid: http://pypi.python.org/pypi/python-openid/

==========
Authomatic
==========

Authomatic
is an **authorization/authentication**
client library for Python web applications
inspired by Alex Vagin’s `Simpleauth <http://code.google.com/p/gae-simpleauth/>`_.
In fact, I almost named it *Deadsimpleauth*,
but that name would be too long
for a succinct library.

For more info visit the project page at http://peterhudec.github.io/authomatic.

Features
========

* Loosely coupled.
* Tiny but powerful interface.
* The |pyopenid|_ library is the only **optional** dependency.
* CSRF protection.
* **Framework agnostic** thanks to adapters. Out of the box support for **Django**, **Flask**, **Pyramid** and **Webapp2**.
* Ready to accommodate future authorization / authentication protocols.
* Makes calls to provider APIs a breeze.
* Supports asynchronous requests.
* JavaScript library as a bonus.
* Out of the box support for:

  * |oauth1|_ providers: **Bitbucket**, **Flickr**, **Meetup**, **Plurk**,
    **Twitter**, **Tumblr**, **UbuntuOne**, **Vimeo**, **Xero**, **Xing** and **Yahoo**.
  * |oauth2|_ providers: **Amazon**, **Behance**, **Bitly**, **Cosm**,
    **DeviantART**, **Eventbrite**, **Facebook**, **Foursquare**,
    **GitHub**, **Google**, **LinkedIn**, **PayPal**, **Reddit**,
    **Viadeo**, **VK**, **WindowsLive**, **Yammer** and **Yandex**.
  * |pyopenid|_ and |gae|_ based |openid|_.

License and Requirements
========================

The package is licensed under
`MIT license <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MIT_License>`__
and requires **Python 2.6** and higher, but doesn't support **Python 3** yet.

Live Demo
=========

There is a |gae| based live demo app running at
http://authomatic-example.appspot.com which makes use of most of the features.

Contribute
==========

.. image:: http://badge.waffle.io/peterhudec/authomatic.png
   :target: http://waffle.io/peterhudec/authomatic
   :alt: Stories in Ready

Contributions of any kind are very welcome.
If you want to contribute, please read the
`Development Guide <http://peterhudec.github.io/authomatic/development.html>`__
first. The project is hosted on
`GitHub <https://github.com/peterhudec/authomatic>`__.

If you find this library useful and are using it in your projects,
please don't be shy and leave a comment about your use case on the
`Authomatic use cases <https://github.com/peterhudec/authomatic/issues/1>`_ issue.

Usage
=====

Read the exhaustive documentation at http://peterhudec.github.io/authomatic.

Commit message:

Added notion about Python 3 support to docs.

README.rst, after:

.. |gae| replace:: Google App Engine
.. _gae: https://developers.google.com/appengine/

.. |webapp2| replace:: Webapp2
.. _webapp2: http://webapp-improved.appspot.com/

.. |oauth2| replace:: OAuth 2.0
.. _oauth2: http://oauth.net/2/

.. |oauth1| replace:: OAuth 1.0a
.. _oauth1: http://oauth.net/core/1.0a/

.. |openid| replace:: OpenID
.. _openid: http://openid.net/

.. |pyopenid| replace:: python-openid
.. _pyopenid: http://pypi.python.org/pypi/python-openid/

==========
Authomatic
==========

Authomatic
is an **authorization/authentication**
client library for Python web applications
inspired by Alex Vagin’s `Simpleauth <http://code.google.com/p/gae-simpleauth/>`_.
In fact, I almost named it *Deadsimpleauth*,
but that name would be too long
for a succinct library.

For more info visit the project page at http://peterhudec.github.io/authomatic.

Features
========

* Loosely coupled.
* Tiny but powerful interface.
* The |pyopenid|_ library is the only **optional** dependency.
* CSRF protection.
* **Framework agnostic** thanks to adapters. Out of the box support for **Django**, **Flask**, **Pyramid** and **Webapp2**.
* Ready to accommodate future authorization / authentication protocols.
* Makes calls to provider APIs a breeze.
* Supports asynchronous requests.
* JavaScript library as a bonus.
* Out of the box support for:

  * |oauth1|_ providers: **Bitbucket**, **Flickr**, **Meetup**, **Plurk**,
    **Twitter**, **Tumblr**, **UbuntuOne**, **Vimeo**, **Xero**, **Xing** and **Yahoo**.
  * |oauth2|_ providers: **Amazon**, **Behance**, **Bitly**, **Cosm**,
    **DeviantART**, **Eventbrite**, **Facebook**, **Foursquare**,
    **GitHub**, **Google**, **LinkedIn**, **PayPal**, **Reddit**,
    **Viadeo**, **VK**, **WindowsLive**, **Yammer** and **Yandex**.
  * |pyopenid|_ and |gae|_ based |openid|_.

License
=======

The package is licensed under
`MIT license <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MIT_License>`__.

Requirements
============

Requires **Python 2.6** and newer. **Python 3.x** support added in
**Authomatic 0.0.11** thanks to
`Emmanuel Leblond <https://github.com/touilleMan>`__.

Live Demo
=========

There is a |gae| based live demo app running at
http://authomatic-example.appspot.com which makes use of most of the features.

Contribute
==========

.. image:: http://badge.waffle.io/peterhudec/authomatic.png
   :target: http://waffle.io/peterhudec/authomatic
   :alt: Stories in Ready

Contributions of any kind are very welcome.
If you want to contribute, please read the
`Development Guide <http://peterhudec.github.io/authomatic/development.html>`__
first. The project is hosted on
`GitHub <https://github.com/peterhudec/authomatic>`__.

If you find this library useful and are using it in your projects,
please don't be shy and leave a comment about your use case on the
`Authomatic use cases <https://github.com/peterhudec/authomatic/issues/1>`_ issue.

Usage
=====

Read the exhaustive documentation at http://peterhudec.github.io/authomatic.
