doc/source/reference/config.rst, before:

Config
------

The **config** is where you specify which providers you want to use
and how should they be configured.

It is a dictionary of dictionaries which maps your custom provider names to
:doc:`provider classes <providers>`.
You can and should specify the keyword arguments for each :doc:`provider class <providers>` here.

.. note::
   
   In fact the config cann be any object implementing a subset of :class:`dict` interface as
   specified in the :class:`.adapters.BaseConfig` abstract class.
   
   The :class:`authomatic.adapters.gaewebapp2.GAEWebapp2Adapter` for instance
   provides a NDB datamodel as a default config.


The **config** must have following structure:

::

   import authomatic
   
   CONFIG = {
   
       #===========================================================================
       # OAutht 2.0
       #===========================================================================
       
       'facebook': { # Provider name.
            'class_': oauth2.Facebook,  # Provider class.
            
            # Provider type specific keyword arguments:
            'short_name': 1, # Unique value used for serialization of credentials only needed by OAuth 2.0 and OAuth 1.0a.
            'consumer_key': '###################', # Key assigned to consumer by the provider.
            'consumer_secret': '###################', # Secret assigned to consumer by the provider.
            'scope': ['user_about_me', # List of requested permissions only needed by OAuth 2.0.
                      'email']
       },
       'google': {
            'class_': 'authomatic.providers.oauth2.Google', # Can be a fully qualified string path.
            
            # Provider type specific keyword arguments:
            'short_name': 2, # use authomatic.short_name() to generate this automatically
            'consumer_key': '###################',
            'consumer_secret': '###################',
            'scope': ['https://www.googleapis.com/auth/userinfo.profile',
                      'https://www.googleapis.com/auth/userinfo.email']
       },
       'windows_live': {
            'class_': 'oauth2.WindowsLive', # Can be a string path relative to the authomatic.providers module.
            
            # Provider type specific keyword arguments:
            'short_name': 3,
            'consumer_key': '###################',
            'consumer_secret': '###################',
            'scope': ['wl.basic',
                      'wl.emails',
                      'wl.photos']
       },
       
       #===========================================================================
       # OAuth 1.0a
       #===========================================================================
       
       'twitter': {
            'class_': oauth1.Twitter,
            
            # Provider type specific keyword arguments:
            'short_name': 4,
            'consumer_key': '###################',
            'consumer_secret': '###################'
            # OAuth 1.0a doesn't need scope.
       },
                
       #===========================================================================
       # OpenID
       #===========================================================================
       
       'oi': {
            'class_': openid.OpenID, # OpenID only needs this.
       },             
       'gaeoi': {
            'class_': gaeopenid.GAEOpenID, # Google App Engine based OpenID provider.
       },             
       'google_oi': {
            'class_': openid.Yahoo, # OpenID provider with predefined identifier 'https://me.yahoo.com'.
       },             
       'yahoo_oi': {
            'class_': openid.Google, # OpenID provider with predefined identifier 'https://www.google.com/accounts/o8/id'.
       }
   }

Commit message:

Added a special "__defaults__" key to the config.

doc/source/reference/config.rst, after:

Config
------

The **config** is where you specify which providers you want to use
and how should they be configured.

It is a dictionary of dictionaries which maps your custom provider names to
:doc:`provider classes <providers>`.
You can and should specify the keyword arguments for each :doc:`provider class <providers>` here.

.. note::
   
   In fact the config cann be any object implementing a subset of :class:`dict` interface as
   specified in the :class:`.adapters.BaseConfig` abstract class.
   
   The :class:`authomatic.adapters.gaewebapp2.GAEWebapp2Adapter` for instance
   provides a NDB datamodel as a default config.


The **config** must have following structure:

::

   import authomatic
   
   CONFIG = {
       
       #===========================================================================
       # Defaults
       #===========================================================================
       
       '__defaults__': { # This is a special item where you can define default values for all providers.
            # You can override each default value by specifying it in concrete provider dict.
            'sreg': ['fullname', 'country'],
            'pape': ['http://schemas.openid.net/pape/policies/2007/06/multi-factor'],
       },
       
       #===========================================================================
       # OAutht 2.0
       #===========================================================================
       
       'facebook': { # Provider name.
            'class_': oauth2.Facebook,  # Provider class. Dont miss the trailing underscore!
            
            # Provider type specific keyword arguments:
            'short_name': 1, # Unique value used for serialization of credentials only needed by OAuth 2.0 and OAuth 1.0a.
            'consumer_key': '###################', # Key assigned to consumer by the provider.
            'consumer_secret': '###################', # Secret assigned to consumer by the provider.
            'scope': ['user_about_me', # List of requested permissions only needed by OAuth 2.0.
                      'email']
       },
       'google': {
            'class_': 'authomatic.providers.oauth2.Google', # Can be a fully qualified string path.
            
            # Provider type specific keyword arguments:
            'short_name': 2, # use authomatic.short_name() to generate this automatically
            'consumer_key': '###################',
            'consumer_secret': '###################',
            'scope': ['https://www.googleapis.com/auth/userinfo.profile',
                      'https://www.googleapis.com/auth/userinfo.email']
       },
       'windows_live': {
            'class_': 'oauth2.WindowsLive', # Can be a string path relative to the authomatic.providers module.
            
            # Provider type specific keyword arguments:
            'short_name': 3,
            'consumer_key': '###################',
            'consumer_secret': '###################',
            'scope': ['wl.basic',
                      'wl.emails',
                      'wl.photos']
       },
       
       #===========================================================================
       # OAuth 1.0a
       #===========================================================================
       
       'twitter': {
            'class_': oauth1.Twitter,
            
            # Provider type specific keyword arguments:
            'short_name': 4,
            'consumer_key': '###################',
            'consumer_secret': '###################'
            # OAuth 1.0a doesn't need scope.
       },
                
       #===========================================================================
       # OpenID
       #===========================================================================
       
       'oi': {
            'class_': openid.OpenID, # OpenID only needs this.
       },             
       'gaeoi': {
            'class_': gaeopenid.GAEOpenID, # Google App Engine based OpenID provider.
       },             
       'google_oi': {
            'class_': openid.Yahoo, # OpenID provider with predefined identifier 'https://me.yahoo.com'.
            'sreg': ['email'] # This overrides the "sreg" defined in "__defaults__".
       },             
       'yahoo_oi': {
            'class_': openid.Google, # OpenID provider with predefined identifier 'https://www.google.com/accounts/o8/id'.
       }
   }
