doc/source/examples/flask-simple.rst, before:

Simple |flask| Example 
----------------------

.. seo-description::
   
   A simple tutorial where we create a Flask app which can can log users
   in with Facebook, Twitter and OpenID and read their recent statuses.

In this tutorial we will create a simple |flask|_ application
which will use **Authomatic** with :class:`.WerkzeugAdapter`
to log **users** in with Facebook, Twitter and |openid|_
and retrieve their recent tweets/statuses.

You can download all the source files we are about to create
`here <https://github.com/peterhudec/authomatic/tree/master/examples/flask/werkzeug_adapter>`__.

First create the :doc:`/reference/config` dictionary where you set up all the providers you want to use.
Yo will need the ``consumer_key`` and ``consumer_secret`` which you can get
`here <https://developers.facebook.com/apps>`__ for Facebook and
`here <https://dev.twitter.com/apps>`__ for Twitter.

.. note::
   
   Facebook and other |oauth2| providers require a **redirect URI**
   which should be the URL of the *login request handler*
   which we will create in this tutorial and whose walue in our case will be
   ``http://[hostname]/login/fb`` for Facebook.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/flask/werkzeug_adapter/config-template.py

Create ``main.py`` file and import what's needed.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/flask/werkzeug_adapter/main.py
   :language: python
   :lines: 6-10

Create the *home* request handler.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/flask/werkzeug_adapter/main.py
   :language: python
   :lines: 18-19, 24

Create the *login* request handler which should receive the ``provider_name`` URL variable and
should also accept the ``POST`` HTTP method to work properly with the :class:`.openid.OpenID`
provider which we have configured in the :doc:`/reference/config`.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/flask/werkzeug_adapter/main.py
   :language: python
   :lines: 27-28

Now just Log the **user** in by calling the :meth:`.Authomatic.login` method inside the *login* handler.
You must pass it the :class:`.WerkzeugAdapter`
and the ``provider_name`` URL variable.
The :class:`.WerkzeugAdapter` needs instances of :class:`werkzeug.wrappers.Request`
and :class:`werkzeug.wrappers.Response` classes.
The handler must return the ``response`` so we assign it to a variable.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/flask/werkzeug_adapter/main.py
   :language: python
   :lines: 34, 37

Now check whether there is a :class:`.LoginResult`.
If so, we need to update the :class:`.User` to get **his/her** info.
Then just pass the whole :class:`.LoginResult` to the template.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/flask/werkzeug_adapter/main.py
   :language: python
   :lines: 40-41, 43, 46

If there is no :class:`.LoginResult` the *login procedure* is still pending and
we need to return the ``response``.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/flask/werkzeug_adapter/main.py
   :language: python
   :lines: 49

Finally run the WSGI application.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/flask/werkzeug_adapter/main.py
   :language: python
   :lines: 53-54

The rest happens in the templates.

First create a base template.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/flask/werkzeug_adapter/templates/base.html
   :language: html+jinja

The ``index.html`` template contains just links to the *login* handler and
an OpenID form. The :meth:`.Authomatic.login` method expects the **claimed ID** to be in the
``id`` request parameter. This off course can be changed.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/flask/werkzeug_adapter/templates/index.html
   :language: html+jinja

The most interesting things happen in the ``login.html`` template.
First create a link to the *home* handler.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/flask/werkzeug_adapter/templates/login.html
   :language: html+jinja
   :lines: 1-2, 4, 6

Then check for possible errors.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/flask/werkzeug_adapter/templates/login.html
   :language: html+jinja
   :lines: 9-11

And welcome the **user**.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/flask/werkzeug_adapter/templates/login.html
   :language: html+jinja
   :lines: 14-18

Seems like we’re done, but we can do more.

If the **user** has :class:`.Credentials`, we can access **his/her protected resources**.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/flask/werkzeug_adapter/templates/login.html
   :language: html+jinja
   :lines: 21

Let’s get the **user’s** five most recent Facebook statuses first.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/flask/werkzeug_adapter/templates/login.html
   :language: html+jinja
   :lines: 24-25

Prepare the Facebook API URL.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/flask/werkzeug_adapter/templates/login.html
   :language: html+jinja
   :lines: 28

And access the protected resource at that URL. The call returns a :class:`.Response` instance.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/flask/werkzeug_adapter/templates/login.html
   :language: html+jinja
   :lines: 29

Check whether the response was successfull.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/flask/werkzeug_adapter/templates/login.html
   :language: html+jinja
   :lines: 32

Parse the :attr:`.Response.data` attribute which is a data structure (:class:`dict` or :class:`list`)
parsed from the :attr:`.Response.content` which usually is **JSON**.

Handle possible errors.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/flask/werkzeug_adapter/templates/login.html
   :language: html+jinja
   :lines: 34-36

If there are no errors, there should be a :class:`list` of statuses in the ``response.data.feed.data`` node.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/flask/werkzeug_adapter/templates/login.html
   :language: html+jinja
   :lines: 38-39, 41-45

Close the opened ``{% if %}`` tags.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/flask/werkzeug_adapter/templates/login.html
   :language: html+jinja
   :lines: 47, 49

Do the same for Twitter.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/flask/werkzeug_adapter/templates/login.html
   :language: html+jinja
   :lines: 52-53, 55-56, 58, 60-62, 64-65, 64-71, 73, 75

Close the opened ``{% if result.user.credentials %}`` tag and the ``body`` block.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/flask/werkzeug_adapter/templates/login.html
   :language: html+jinja
   :lines: 76, 78

That's it. Now just run the application.

.. code-block:: bash
   
   $ python main.py

.. include:: twitter-localhost.rst

Here is the complete ``login.html`` template.
Remember that you can download all the files we just created from
`GitHub <https://github.com/peterhudec/authomatic/tree/master/examples/flask/werkzeug_adapter>`_.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/flask/werkzeug_adapter/templates/login.html
   :language: html+jinja

And here is the whole ``main.py`` module.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/flask/werkzeug_adapter/main.py
   :language: python

Commit message:

Added a note to about using flask.session. Fixes #74.

doc/source/examples/flask-simple.rst, after:

Simple |flask| Example 
----------------------

.. seo-description::
   
   A simple tutorial where we create a Flask app which can can log users
   in with Facebook, Twitter and OpenID and read their recent statuses.

In this tutorial we will create a simple |flask|_ application
which will use **Authomatic** with :class:`.WerkzeugAdapter`
to log **users** in with Facebook, Twitter and |openid|_
and retrieve their recent tweets/statuses.

You can download all the source files we are about to create
`here <https://github.com/peterhudec/authomatic/tree/master/examples/flask/werkzeug_adapter>`__.

First create the :doc:`/reference/config` dictionary where you set up all the providers you want to use.
Yo will need the ``consumer_key`` and ``consumer_secret`` which you can get
`here <https://developers.facebook.com/apps>`__ for Facebook and
`here <https://dev.twitter.com/apps>`__ for Twitter.

.. note::
   
   Facebook and other |oauth2| providers require a **redirect URI**
   which should be the URL of the *login request handler*
   which we will create in this tutorial and whose walue in our case will be
   ``http://[hostname]/login/fb`` for Facebook.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/flask/werkzeug_adapter/config-template.py

Create ``main.py`` file and import what's needed.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/flask/werkzeug_adapter/main.py
   :language: python
   :lines: 6-10

Create the *home* request handler.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/flask/werkzeug_adapter/main.py
   :language: python
   :lines: 18-19, 24

Create the *login* request handler which should receive the ``provider_name`` URL variable and
should also accept the ``POST`` HTTP method to work properly with the :class:`.openid.OpenID`
provider which we have configured in the :doc:`/reference/config`.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/flask/werkzeug_adapter/main.py
   :language: python
   :lines: 27-28

Now just Log the **user** in by calling the :meth:`.Authomatic.login` method inside the *login* handler.
You must pass it the :class:`.WerkzeugAdapter`
and the ``provider_name`` URL variable.
The :class:`.WerkzeugAdapter` needs instances of :class:`werkzeug.wrappers.Request`
and :class:`werkzeug.wrappers.Response` classes.
The handler must return the ``response`` so we assign it to a variable.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/flask/werkzeug_adapter/main.py
   :language: python
   :lines: 34, 37

.. note::

   If you want to use the :class:`flask.session`, you can do it like this:

   .. code-block:: python
      :emphasize-lines: 7-8

      # You need to set a secret string otherwise the session will not work.
      app.secret_key = 'random secret string'

      result = authomatic.login(
         WerkzeugAdapter(request, response),
         provider_name,
         session=session,
         session_saver=lambda: app.save_session(session, response)
      )

Now check whether there is a :class:`.LoginResult`.
If so, we need to update the :class:`.User` to get **his/her** info.
Then just pass the whole :class:`.LoginResult` to the template.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/flask/werkzeug_adapter/main.py
   :language: python
   :lines: 40-41, 43, 46

If there is no :class:`.LoginResult` the *login procedure* is still pending and
we need to return the ``response``.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/flask/werkzeug_adapter/main.py
   :language: python
   :lines: 49

Finally run the WSGI application.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/flask/werkzeug_adapter/main.py
   :language: python
   :lines: 53-54

The rest happens in the templates.

First create a base template.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/flask/werkzeug_adapter/templates/base.html
   :language: html+jinja

The ``index.html`` template contains just links to the *login* handler and
an OpenID form. The :meth:`.Authomatic.login` method expects the **claimed ID** to be in the
``id`` request parameter. This off course can be changed.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/flask/werkzeug_adapter/templates/index.html
   :language: html+jinja

The most interesting things happen in the ``login.html`` template.
First create a link to the *home* handler.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/flask/werkzeug_adapter/templates/login.html
   :language: html+jinja
   :lines: 1-2, 4, 6

Then check for possible errors.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/flask/werkzeug_adapter/templates/login.html
   :language: html+jinja
   :lines: 9-11

And welcome the **user**.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/flask/werkzeug_adapter/templates/login.html
   :language: html+jinja
   :lines: 14-18

Seems like we’re done, but we can do more.

If the **user** has :class:`.Credentials`, we can access **his/her protected resources**.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/flask/werkzeug_adapter/templates/login.html
   :language: html+jinja
   :lines: 21

Let’s get the **user’s** five most recent Facebook statuses first.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/flask/werkzeug_adapter/templates/login.html
   :language: html+jinja
   :lines: 24-25

Prepare the Facebook API URL.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/flask/werkzeug_adapter/templates/login.html
   :language: html+jinja
   :lines: 28

And access the protected resource at that URL. The call returns a :class:`.Response` instance.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/flask/werkzeug_adapter/templates/login.html
   :language: html+jinja
   :lines: 29

Check whether the response was successfull.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/flask/werkzeug_adapter/templates/login.html
   :language: html+jinja
   :lines: 32

Parse the :attr:`.Response.data` attribute which is a data structure (:class:`dict` or :class:`list`)
parsed from the :attr:`.Response.content` which usually is **JSON**.

Handle possible errors.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/flask/werkzeug_adapter/templates/login.html
   :language: html+jinja
   :lines: 34-36

If there are no errors, there should be a :class:`list` of statuses in the ``response.data.feed.data`` node.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/flask/werkzeug_adapter/templates/login.html
   :language: html+jinja
   :lines: 38-39, 41-45

Close the opened ``{% if %}`` tags.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/flask/werkzeug_adapter/templates/login.html
   :language: html+jinja
   :lines: 47, 49

Do the same for Twitter.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/flask/werkzeug_adapter/templates/login.html
   :language: html+jinja
   :lines: 52-53, 55-56, 58, 60-62, 64-65, 64-71, 73, 75

Close the opened ``{% if result.user.credentials %}`` tag and the ``body`` block.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/flask/werkzeug_adapter/templates/login.html
   :language: html+jinja
   :lines: 76, 78

That's it. Now just run the application.

.. code-block:: bash
   
   $ python main.py

.. include:: twitter-localhost.rst

Here is the complete ``login.html`` template.
Remember that you can download all the files we just created from
`GitHub <https://github.com/peterhudec/authomatic/tree/master/examples/flask/werkzeug_adapter>`_.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/flask/werkzeug_adapter/templates/login.html
   :language: html+jinja

And here is the whole ``main.py`` module.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/flask/werkzeug_adapter/main.py
   :language: python
